Game Description:
-----------------
Spheres vs. Cubes is a 3D, third-person, physics-simulation-driven platformer with 
a built-in level editor. You control the green sphere. Your enemies are the red
cubes, which shoot cube bullets at you. If you get hit with a bullet, you lose health.
Your current health is represented by the radius of your sphere. If you lose all your health,
you die. Your goal is to reach the blue sphere, which represents the endpoint of the level.
If you complete all the levels without dying, you win. At any time, you can enter level editing
mode, which pauses the game and allows you to add enemies, ground objects, and end points to the
level, load level files from the filesystem, and save the state of the current level to a file.
A complete list of the level editor's capabilities can be found in the "Controls" section below.

Running The Game:
-----------------
To run the game, just cd into this folder and run "java -jar SpheresVsCubes.jar"

Controls:
---------
The basic gameplay controls are:
  WASD to move horizontally.
  Move the mouse to look around.
  Press space to jump.
  +/- or mouse scroll wheel to zoom the camera in and out.

There are also some other hotkeys available all the time:
  P - Save the current level to a file.
  ; - Load a level file.
  ] - Skip to the next level file (see the Level Progression section).
  E - toggle level editing mode. Enabling the level editor pauses the physics simulation.

Then, there are many hotkeys useable only in editing mode:
  Space - hold to move upward
  Backspace - hold to move downward
  R - place a ground rectangle.
  T - place an enemy
  G - place a level end point

Lastly, there are a bunch of editing-mode-only hotkeys that can be modified by holding Shift, \, or ':
  Shift - hold to reverse the direction of all the below hotkeys (i.e. move/look in the opposite direction or grow instead of shrink)
  \ - hold to increase the speed of the change made by each of the below hotkeys (doesn't apply to camera angle snapping)
  ' - hold to decrease the speed of the change made by each of the below hotkeys (doesn't apply to camera angle snapping)
  
  Y - translate the last placed rectangle along the positive X-axis
  H - translate the last placed rectangle along the positive Y-axis
  N - translate the last placed rectangle along the positive Z-axis
  
  U - increase the size of the last placed rectangle along its X-axis
  J - increase the size of the last placed rectangle along its Y-axis
  M - increase the size of the last placed rectangle along its Z-axis
  
  I - set the camera's horizontal angle so that it is looking along the positive X-axis
  K - set the camera's horizontal angle so that it is looking along the positive Z-axis
  , - set the camera's vertical angle so that it is looking straight down (along the negative Y-axis)
  O - set the camera's vertical angle to that it is looking straight ahead. (not affected by shift)

Level Progression:
------------------
Level ordering (i.e. the level that gets loaded after you reach an endpoint or press "]")
is implemented with file naming conventions. To load the next level, the game looks at
the filename of the current level, finds any number of digits [0-9] at the end of the
filename, treats those digits as an integer, increments that integer by 1, and takes
the result as the filename of the next level. So, if you want to make your own level
progression, you could save your levels to files named "mylevel1", "mylevel2", etc. Then,
load the first level manually by pressing ";" and the game will progress through your levels.
By default, the game loads the file "levels/level1" and progresses from there.

Videos:
-------
Videos have been uploaded to Vimeo, since I'm not sure what formats you'll be able to play.
There are 2 demo videos, one showing some basic gameplay with a progression through 2 levels
(although I do enter level editor mode a few times to avoid death :)). All the levels you see
were created with the in-game level editor. The second video shows me doing various things with
the level editor.

Gameplay: https://vimeo.com/64566252
Level editing: https://vimeo.com/64568439
